README.md, before:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ameshkov/gocurl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/ameshkov/gocurl)
[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ameshkov/gocurl/all.svg)](https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/releases)

# gocurl

Simplified version of [`curl`](https://curl.se/) written in Go.

1. Supports a limited subset of curl options.
2. Supports some flags that curl does
   not. [Read more about the new stuff](#newstuff).

* [Why in the world you need another curl?](#why)
* [How to install gocurl?](#install)
* [How to use gocurl?](#howtouse)
* [New stuff](#newstuff)
    * [Encrypted ClientHello](#ech)
    * [Custom DNS servers](#dns)
    * [Experimental flags](#exp)
        * [Post-quantum cryptography](#pq)
    * [WebSocket support](#websocket)
* [All command-line arguments](#allcmdarguments)

<a id="why"></a>

## Why in the world you need another curl?

Curl is certainly awesome, but sometimes I need to have better control over
what's happening on the inside and to be able to debug it. It seemed easier to
me to implement the necessary parts of curl in Go.

Also, I'd like to be able to extend it with what fits my specific needs.
Unfortunately, curl is a bit too huge for that now.

<a id="install"></a>

## How to install gocurl?

* Using homebrew:
    ```shell
    brew install ameshkov/tap/gocurl
    ```
* From source:
    ```shell
    go install github.com/ameshkov/gocurl@latest
    ```
* You can get a binary from
  the [releases page](https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/releases).

<a id="howtouse"></a>

## How to use gocurl?

Use it the same way you use original curl.

* `gocurl https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` make a `GET` request.
* `gocurl -d "test" -v https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/post` make a `POST`
  request with `test` data.
* `gocurl -I https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` make a `HEAD` request.
* `gocurl -I --insecure https://expired.badssl.com/` do not verify TLS
  certificate.
* `gocurl -I --http1.1 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use
  HTTP/1.1.
* `gocurl -I --http2 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use HTTP/2.
* `gocurl -I --http3 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use HTTP/3.
* `gocurl -x socks5://user:pass@host:port https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get`
  use a proxy server.
* `gocurl -I --tlsv1.3 https://tls-v1-2.badssl.com:1012/` force use TLS v1.3.
* `gocurl -I --connect-to="httpbin.agrd.workers.dev:443:172.67.152.85:443"
  https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` connect to the specified IP addresses.
* `gocurl -I --resolve="httpbin.agrd.workers.dev:443:172.67.152.85"
  https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` resolve the hostname to the specified
  IP address. Note, that unlike `curl`, `gocurl` ignores port in this option.

<a id="newstuff"></a>

### New stuff

Also, you can use some new stuff that is not supported by curl.

* `gocurl --json-output https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` write output in
  machine-readable format (JSON).
* `gocurl --tls-split-hello=5:50 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` split
  TLS ClientHello in two parts and make a 50ms delay after sending the first
  part.
* `gocurl -v --ech https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace` enables support
  for ECH (Encrypted Client Hello) for the request. More on this [below](#ech).
* `gocurl --dns-servers="tls://dns.google" https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get`
  uses custom DNS-over-TLS server to resolve hostnames. More on this
  [below](#dns).
* `gocurl --experiment=pq https://pq.cloudflareresearch.com/` enables
  post-quantum cryptography support for the request. More on this [below](#pq).
* `gocurl wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` sends a WS upgrade request.
* `gocurl -d "test message" wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` establishes a WS
  connection, sends the first message through it and reads the response.

<a id="ech"></a>

#### Encrypted ClientHello

ECH or Encrypted Client Hello is a new standard that allows completely
encrypting TLS Client Hello. Currently, the RFC is in the [draft stage][echrfc],
but it is already supported by some big names [like Cloudflare][echcloudflare].
`gocurl` supports ECH and provides several options to use it.

The simple option is just add `--ech` flag and see what happens:

```shell
gocurl -v --ech https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

In this case, `gocurl` will try to discover the ECH configuration from DNS
records and then use them to establish the connection.

Instead of that, you may choose to supply your own configuration in the same
base64-encoded format as used by the SVCB record:

```shell
# Send a type=https query and find ech record there.
% dig -t https crypto.cloudflare.com. +short
1 . alpn="http/1.1,h2" ipv4hint=162.159.137.85,162.159.138.85 ech=AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA= ipv6hint=2606:4700:7::a29f:8955,2606:4700:7::a29f:8a55

# You can now pass it to gocurl.
gocurl -v \
  --echconfig="AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA=" \
  https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

> Interesting thing about ECH is that it may connect even if you use an expired
> configuration (see HelloRetryRequest in the RFC). It depends on both the
> server and the client implementation and does not work with Cloudflare at the
> moment.

Here's what happens under the hood:

1. `gocurl` resolves `crypto.cloudflare.com` IP address and connects to it.
2. It sends TLS ClientHello (outer) with encrypted inner ClientHello to that IP
   address. The ServerName field in the outer ClientHello is set to the one that
   is encoded in the ECH configuration (in this example it will be
   `cloudflare-ech.com`), and in the inner encrypted ClientHello it will be
   set to `crypto.cloudflare.com`.

You may want to configure a specific "client-facing" server instead and the way
to do that is to use `--connect-to`. Let's send a request to `cloudflare.com`
and use `crypto.cloudflare.com` as a client-facing server for that.

```shell
gocurl -v \
  --connect-to="cloudflare.com:443:crypto.cloudflare.com:443" \
  --echconfig="AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA=" \
  https://cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

> For this command to work you may need to replace `--echconfig` with the
> current one discovered using DNS as was explained before.

Here's what happens now:

1. `gocurl` connects to `crypto.cloudflare.com` (client-facing relay).
2. Sends a TLS ClientHello with `cloudflare-ech.com` in the Server Name
   extension.
3. Establishes a TLS connection with `cloudflare.com` using the inner encrypted
   ClientHello.

[echrfc]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-esni/

[echcloudflare]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/handshake-encryption-endgame-an-ech-update/

<a id="dns"></a>

#### Custom DNS servers

`gocurl` allows using custom DNS servers to resolve hostnames when making
requests. This can be achieved by using `--dns-servers` command-line argument.
`curl` with `c-ares` also supports this command-line argument, but `gocurl`
adds encrypted DNS support on top of it, it supports all popular DNS encryption
protocols: DNS-over-QUIC, DNS-over-HTTPS, DNS-over-TLS and DNSCrypt.

You can specify multiple DNS servers, in this case `gocurl` will attempt to use
them one by one until it receives a response or until all of them fail:

```shell
gocurl \
  --dns-servers="tls://dns.adguard-dns.com,tls://dns.google" \
  https://example.org/

```

* DNS-over-QUIC
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="quic://dns.adguard-dns.com" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNS-over-HTTPS
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="https://dns.adguard-dns.com/dns-query" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNS-over-TLS
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="tls://dns.adguard-dns.com" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNSCrypt
  ```shell
  gocurl \
      --dns-servers sdns://AQIAAAAAAAAAFDE3Ni4xMDMuMTMwLjEzMDo1NDQzINErR_JS3PLCu_iZEIbq95zkSV2LFsigxDIuUso_OQhzIjIuZG5zY3J5cHQuZGVmYXVsdC5uczEuYWRndWFyZC5jb20 \
      https://example.org/
  ```

<a id="websocket"></a>

#### WebSocket support

`gocurl` provides some initial support for WebSocket protocol. It may be
extended in the future, see the corresponding [Github issue][wsissue].

* `gocurl wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` sends a WS upgrade request.
* `gocurl -d "test message" wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` establishes a WS
  connection, sends the first message through it and reads the response.

[wsissue]: https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/issues/17

<a id="exp"></a>

#### Experimental flags

Experimental flags are added to `gocurl` whenever there's a feature that may be
completely changed or removed in the future. Experiments can be enabled using
the `--experiment=<name[:value]>` argument where `name` is the experiment name
and `value` is an optional string value (the need for it depends on the actual
experiment).

<a id="pq"></a>

##### Post-quantum cryptography

Post-quantum (PQ) cryptography has been designed to be secure against the
threat of quantum computers. You can learn more about it from Cloudflare's
[blog post][postquantum]. `gocurl` supports it via the `--experiment=pq` flag.

Note, that it is not available for `--http3` at the moment.

```shell
gocurl --experiment=pq https://pq.cloudflareresearch.com/
```

[postquantum]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/

<a id="allcmdarguments"></a>

## All command-line arguments

```shell
Usage:
  gocurl [OPTIONS]

Application Options:
      --url=<URL>                                           URL the request will be made to. Can be
                                                            specified without any flags.
  -X, --request=<method>                                    HTTP method. GET by default.
  -d, --data=<data>                                         Sends the specified data to the HTTP
                                                            server using content type
                                                            application/x-www-form-urlencoded.
  -H, --header=                                             Extra header to include in the request.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
  -x, --proxy=[protocol://username:password@]host[:port]    Use the specified proxy. The proxy
                                                            string can be specified with a
                                                            protocol:// prefix.
      --connect-to=<HOST1:PORT1:HOST2:PORT2>                For a request to the given HOST1:PORT1
                                                            pair, connect to HOST2:PORT2 instead.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
  -I, --head                                                Fetch the headers only.
  -k, --insecure                                            Disables TLS verification of the
                                                            connection.
      --tlsv1.3                                             Forces gocurl to use TLS v1.3.
      --tlsv1.2                                             Forces gocurl to use TLS v1.2.
      --http1.1                                             Forces gocurl to use HTTP v1.1.
      --http2                                               Forces gocurl to use HTTP v2.
      --http3                                               Forces gocurl to use HTTP v3.
      --ech                                                 Enables ECH support for the request.
      --echconfig=<base64-encoded data>                     ECH configuration to use for this
                                                            request. Implicitly enables --ech when
                                                            specified.
  -4, --ipv4                                                This option tells gocurl to use IPv4
                                                            addresses only when resolving host
                                                            names.
  -6, --ipv6                                                This option tells gocurl to use IPv6
                                                            addresses only when resolving host
                                                            names.
      --dns-servers=<DNSADDR1,DNSADDR2>                     DNS servers to use when making the
                                                            request. Supports encrypted DNS:
                                                            tls://, https://, quic://, sdns://
      --resolve=<[+]host:port:addr[,addr]...>               Provide a custom address for a specific
                                                            host. port is ignored by gocurl. '*'
                                                            can be used instead of the host name.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
      --tls-split-hello=<CHUNKSIZE:DELAY>                   An option that allows splitting TLS
                                                            ClientHello in two parts in order to
                                                            avoid common DPI systems detecting TLS.
                                                            CHUNKSIZE is the size of the first
                                                            bytes before ClientHello is split,
                                                            DELAY is delay in milliseconds before
                                                            sending the second part.
      --json-output                                         Makes gocurl write machine-readable
                                                            output in JSON format.
  -o, --output=<file>                                       Defines where to write the received
                                                            data. If not set, gocurl will write
                                                            everything to stdout.
      --experiment=<name[:value]>                           Allows enabling experimental options.
                                                            See the documentation for available
                                                            options. Can be specified multiple
                                                            times.
  -v, --verbose                                             Verbose output (optional).

Help Options:
  -h, --help                                                Show this help message
```

Commit message:

Added docker image for gocurl

README.md, after:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/ameshkov/gocurl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/ameshkov/gocurl)
[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ameshkov/gocurl/all.svg)](https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/releases)

# gocurl

Simplified version of [`curl`](https://curl.se/) written in Go.

1. Supports a limited subset of curl options.
2. Supports some flags that curl does
   not. [Read more about the new stuff](#newstuff).

* [Why in the world you need another curl?](#why)
* [How to install gocurl?](#install)
* [How to use gocurl?](#howtouse)
* [New stuff](#newstuff)
    * [Encrypted ClientHello](#ech)
    * [Custom DNS servers](#dns)
    * [Experimental flags](#exp)
        * [Post-quantum cryptography](#pq)
    * [WebSocket support](#websocket)
* [All command-line arguments](#allcmdarguments)

<a id="why"></a>

## Why in the world you need another curl?

Curl is certainly awesome, but sometimes I need to have better control over
what's happening on the inside and to be able to debug it. It seemed easier to
me to implement the necessary parts of curl in Go.

Also, I'd like to be able to extend it with what fits my specific needs.
Unfortunately, curl is a bit too huge for that now.

<a id="install"></a>

## How to install gocurl?

* Using homebrew:
    ```shell
    brew install ameshkov/tap/gocurl
    ```
* From source:
    ```shell
    go install github.com/ameshkov/gocurl@latest
    ```
* You can get a binary from
  the [releases page](https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/releases).

<a id="howtouse"></a>

## How to use gocurl?

Use it the same way you use original curl.

* `gocurl https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` make a `GET` request.
* `gocurl -d "test" -v https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/post` make a `POST`
  request with `test` data.
* `gocurl -I https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` make a `HEAD` request.
* `gocurl -I --insecure https://expired.badssl.com/` do not verify TLS
  certificate.
* `gocurl -I --http1.1 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use
  HTTP/1.1.
* `gocurl -I --http2 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use HTTP/2.
* `gocurl -I --http3 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` force use HTTP/3.
* `gocurl -x socks5://user:pass@host:port https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get`
  use a proxy server.
* `gocurl -I --tlsv1.3 https://tls-v1-2.badssl.com:1012/` force use TLS v1.3.
* `gocurl -I --connect-to="httpbin.agrd.workers.dev:443:172.67.152.85:443"
  https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` connect to the specified IP addresses.
* `gocurl -I --resolve="httpbin.agrd.workers.dev:443:172.67.152.85"
  https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/head` resolve the hostname to the specified
  IP address. Note, that unlike `curl`, `gocurl` ignores port in this option.

Alternatively, you can use the Docker image:
```shell
docker run --rm ghcr.io/ameshkov/gocurl --help
```

<a id="newstuff"></a>

### New stuff

Also, you can use some new stuff that is not supported by curl.

* `gocurl --json-output https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` write output in
  machine-readable format (JSON).
* `gocurl --tls-split-hello=5:50 https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get` split
  TLS ClientHello in two parts and make a 50ms delay after sending the first
  part.
* `gocurl -v --ech https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace` enables support
  for ECH (Encrypted Client Hello) for the request. More on this [below](#ech).
* `gocurl --dns-servers="tls://dns.google" https://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/get`
  uses custom DNS-over-TLS server to resolve hostnames. More on this
  [below](#dns).
* `gocurl --experiment=pq https://pq.cloudflareresearch.com/` enables
  post-quantum cryptography support for the request. More on this [below](#pq).
* `gocurl wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` sends a WS upgrade request.
* `gocurl -d "test message" wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` establishes a WS
  connection, sends the first message through it and reads the response.

<a id="ech"></a>

#### Encrypted ClientHello

ECH or Encrypted Client Hello is a new standard that allows completely
encrypting TLS Client Hello. Currently, the RFC is in the [draft stage][echrfc],
but it is already supported by some big names [like Cloudflare][echcloudflare].
`gocurl` supports ECH and provides several options to use it.

The simple option is just add `--ech` flag and see what happens:

```shell
gocurl -v --ech https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

In this case, `gocurl` will try to discover the ECH configuration from DNS
records and then use them to establish the connection.

Instead of that, you may choose to supply your own configuration in the same
base64-encoded format as used by the SVCB record:

```shell
# Send a type=https query and find ech record there.
% dig -t https crypto.cloudflare.com. +short
1 . alpn="http/1.1,h2" ipv4hint=162.159.137.85,162.159.138.85 ech=AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA= ipv6hint=2606:4700:7::a29f:8955,2606:4700:7::a29f:8a55

# You can now pass it to gocurl.
gocurl -v \
  --echconfig="AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA=" \
  https://crypto.cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

> Interesting thing about ECH is that it may connect even if you use an expired
> configuration (see HelloRetryRequest in the RFC). It depends on both the
> server and the client implementation and does not work with Cloudflare at the
> moment.

Here's what happens under the hood:

1. `gocurl` resolves `crypto.cloudflare.com` IP address and connects to it.
2. It sends TLS ClientHello (outer) with encrypted inner ClientHello to that IP
   address. The ServerName field in the outer ClientHello is set to the one that
   is encoded in the ECH configuration (in this example it will be
   `cloudflare-ech.com`), and in the inner encrypted ClientHello it will be
   set to `crypto.cloudflare.com`.

You may want to configure a specific "client-facing" server instead and the way
to do that is to use `--connect-to`. Let's send a request to `cloudflare.com`
and use `crypto.cloudflare.com` as a client-facing server for that.

```shell
gocurl -v \
  --connect-to="cloudflare.com:443:crypto.cloudflare.com:443" \
  --echconfig="AEX+DQBBvgAgACARWS42g5NmDZo5pIpTWSwHzTwzdRKPdUW732QbyUeyDQAEAAEAAQASY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1lY2guY29tAAA=" \
  https://cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace
```

> For this command to work you may need to replace `--echconfig` with the
> current one discovered using DNS as was explained before.

Here's what happens now:

1. `gocurl` connects to `crypto.cloudflare.com` (client-facing relay).
2. Sends a TLS ClientHello with `cloudflare-ech.com` in the Server Name
   extension.
3. Establishes a TLS connection with `cloudflare.com` using the inner encrypted
   ClientHello.

[echrfc]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-esni/

[echcloudflare]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/handshake-encryption-endgame-an-ech-update/

<a id="dns"></a>

#### Custom DNS servers

`gocurl` allows using custom DNS servers to resolve hostnames when making
requests. This can be achieved by using `--dns-servers` command-line argument.
`curl` with `c-ares` also supports this command-line argument, but `gocurl`
adds encrypted DNS support on top of it, it supports all popular DNS encryption
protocols: DNS-over-QUIC, DNS-over-HTTPS, DNS-over-TLS and DNSCrypt.

You can specify multiple DNS servers, in this case `gocurl` will attempt to use
them one by one until it receives a response or until all of them fail:

```shell
gocurl \
  --dns-servers="tls://dns.adguard-dns.com,tls://dns.google" \
  https://example.org/

```

* DNS-over-QUIC
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="quic://dns.adguard-dns.com" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNS-over-HTTPS
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="https://dns.adguard-dns.com/dns-query" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNS-over-TLS
  ```shell
  gocurl --dns-servers="tls://dns.adguard-dns.com" https://example.org/
  ```

* DNSCrypt
  ```shell
  gocurl \
      --dns-servers sdns://AQIAAAAAAAAAFDE3Ni4xMDMuMTMwLjEzMDo1NDQzINErR_JS3PLCu_iZEIbq95zkSV2LFsigxDIuUso_OQhzIjIuZG5zY3J5cHQuZGVmYXVsdC5uczEuYWRndWFyZC5jb20 \
      https://example.org/
  ```

<a id="websocket"></a>

#### WebSocket support

`gocurl` provides some initial support for WebSocket protocol. It may be
extended in the future, see the corresponding [Github issue][wsissue].

* `gocurl wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` sends a WS upgrade request.
* `gocurl -d "test message" wss://httpbin.agrd.workers.dev/ws` establishes a WS
  connection, sends the first message through it and reads the response.

[wsissue]: https://github.com/ameshkov/gocurl/issues/17

<a id="exp"></a>

#### Experimental flags

Experimental flags are added to `gocurl` whenever there's a feature that may be
completely changed or removed in the future. Experiments can be enabled using
the `--experiment=<name[:value]>` argument where `name` is the experiment name
and `value` is an optional string value (the need for it depends on the actual
experiment).

<a id="pq"></a>

##### Post-quantum cryptography

Post-quantum (PQ) cryptography has been designed to be secure against the
threat of quantum computers. You can learn more about it from Cloudflare's
[blog post][postquantum]. `gocurl` supports it via the `--experiment=pq` flag.

Note, that it is not available for `--http3` at the moment.

```shell
gocurl --experiment=pq https://pq.cloudflareresearch.com/
```

[postquantum]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/

<a id="allcmdarguments"></a>

## All command-line arguments

```shell
Usage:
  gocurl [OPTIONS]

Application Options:
      --url=<URL>                                           URL the request will be made to. Can be
                                                            specified without any flags.
  -X, --request=<method>                                    HTTP method. GET by default.
  -d, --data=<data>                                         Sends the specified data to the HTTP
                                                            server using content type
                                                            application/x-www-form-urlencoded.
  -H, --header=                                             Extra header to include in the request.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
  -x, --proxy=[protocol://username:password@]host[:port]    Use the specified proxy. The proxy
                                                            string can be specified with a
                                                            protocol:// prefix.
      --connect-to=<HOST1:PORT1:HOST2:PORT2>                For a request to the given HOST1:PORT1
                                                            pair, connect to HOST2:PORT2 instead.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
  -I, --head                                                Fetch the headers only.
  -k, --insecure                                            Disables TLS verification of the
                                                            connection.
      --tlsv1.3                                             Forces gocurl to use TLS v1.3.
      --tlsv1.2                                             Forces gocurl to use TLS v1.2.
      --http1.1                                             Forces gocurl to use HTTP v1.1.
      --http2                                               Forces gocurl to use HTTP v2.
      --http3                                               Forces gocurl to use HTTP v3.
      --ech                                                 Enables ECH support for the request.
      --echconfig=<base64-encoded data>                     ECH configuration to use for this
                                                            request. Implicitly enables --ech when
                                                            specified.
  -4, --ipv4                                                This option tells gocurl to use IPv4
                                                            addresses only when resolving host
                                                            names.
  -6, --ipv6                                                This option tells gocurl to use IPv6
                                                            addresses only when resolving host
                                                            names.
      --dns-servers=<DNSADDR1,DNSADDR2>                     DNS servers to use when making the
                                                            request. Supports encrypted DNS:
                                                            tls://, https://, quic://, sdns://
      --resolve=<[+]host:port:addr[,addr]...>               Provide a custom address for a specific
                                                            host. port is ignored by gocurl. '*'
                                                            can be used instead of the host name.
                                                            Can be specified multiple times.
      --tls-split-hello=<CHUNKSIZE:DELAY>                   An option that allows splitting TLS
                                                            ClientHello in two parts in order to
                                                            avoid common DPI systems detecting TLS.
                                                            CHUNKSIZE is the size of the first
                                                            bytes before ClientHello is split,
                                                            DELAY is delay in milliseconds before
                                                            sending the second part.
      --json-output                                         Makes gocurl write machine-readable
                                                            output in JSON format.
  -o, --output=<file>                                       Defines where to write the received
                                                            data. If not set, gocurl will write
                                                            everything to stdout.
      --experiment=<name[:value]>                           Allows enabling experimental options.
                                                            See the documentation for available
                                                            options. Can be specified multiple
                                                            times.
  -v, --verbose                                             Verbose output (optional).

Help Options:
  -h, --help                                                Show this help message
```
